//Clone a respository

To clone a repository from GitHub using the command line interface (CLI), follow these steps:

Open a terminal window or command prompt on your computer.

Navigate to the directory where you want to clone the repository. You can use the cd command to change directories. For example, cd ~/Documents would take you to the Documents folder.

On the GitHub repository page, click on the "Code" button and select the HTTPS or SSH option depending on how you want to access the repository.

Copy the URL that is displayed in the box.

In your terminal or command prompt, type the following command and paste the URL you copied in the previous step after the word git clone:

bash
Copy code
git clone <repository URL>
Press enter and wait for the repository to be cloned to your computer. You should see a message that says "Cloning into <repository name>" followed by the progress of the download.

Once the download is complete, you should see a new directory with the name of the repository in the directory where you cloned it.

That's it! You have now cloned a repository from GitHub using the command line interface

//Commit Changes

To commit changes to a repository using the command line interface (CLI), follow these steps:

Navigate to the directory where the repository is located using the cd command.

Type the following command to check the current status of the repository:


Copy code
git status
This will show you the changes that have been made to the repository.

Add the changes you want to commit to the staging area using the following command:


Copy code
git add <file name>
Alternatively, you can use the following command to add all changes to the staging area:


Copy code
git add .
Once the changes are added to the staging area, you can commit the changes using the following command:


Copy code
git commit -m "commit message"
Replace commit message with a brief description of the changes you made.

Finally, push the changes to the remote repository using the following command:


Copy code
git push
If you are pushing to a branch other than the main branch, you will need to specify the branch name in the command:


Copy code
git push <remote> <branch>
Replace <remote> with the name of the remote repository (e.g. "origin") and <branch> with the name of the branch you want to push to.

That's it! You have now committed changes to a repository using the command line interface.
